Gwenevere Abriel: You're in your office you want that door open back there.
couldn't help it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, sure, have been thinking about Jeff hoping that you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Just being kind to yourself, you know, just mostly just just sending out this sort of gentle vibe of
Gwenevere Abriel: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: Kindness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try
Nick: Yeah, yeah. I don't know. It's like I'm
Nick: Ben fine Saturday was like, well, you know, I was like, a bit like bread that a lot of times, people who are in therapy like like digging up memories and stuff like that.
Nick: Yeah, kind of shitty sometimes after
Nick: I was like it was a certain point where is like 10 minutes afternoon. I was like, wait, just something happened and I'm going to like always feel this way my entire life is like.
Nick: It's like, oh, no, it's just like that bodies and like a stress response kind of thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is in a stress response. So we need to continue to work in desensitize a gnat and integrating some positive neural networks around it so
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm really glad you're here so that we can do that. It is, and I try to sort of give a warning that
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll feel like someone like took a pound of flesh from you. I mean, it was you did very hard work and what it what we found out is there was pieces and I'm guessing there's other pieces in there that have been blocked off. Cut off for self preservation
Gwenevere Abriel: And the mind knows exactly how to self preserve and keep you sane.
Gwenevere Abriel: But notice that it finds its way in intrusive self esteem, it finds its way in there to be known, so that we can completely change it because there's no there's no need for you to have any guilt.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no need for you to have the shame and there's no need for you to have a deficiency in self esteem. But psychologically like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Makes sense that you would have come to these these experiences.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you didn't get this therapy, a long time ago because you didn't have right because when we do well what are, what are the resources for this, this young man, he has to go to nature. He hasn't go you know he doesn't go to people.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's, that's a lie. You have a lot of people that have just been on reliable and untrustworthy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we got to change that we got to get those people into your life so you can trust them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And have these sort of therapeutic healing relationships for some people, Nick, it's in here. I might be the first person that they're like they're trying on what it feels like to trust someone
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, they'll, they'll try on a leave and they'll even get a little angry with me or they'll, they'll work through disappointment or discussed or and my job is just to not
Gwenevere Abriel: Disappear with it to hold that and contain it. So if those big feelings come up. Just don't abandon therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, just know that I'm not ever. I'm never going to take it out on you. You may feel like it though. That's the tricky bit. You may feel abandoned you may feel like you're you're being hurt but I promise you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I schedule appointments sometimes and I have made the mistake and I did it this month I'll make him I'm human. So I sometimes I've accidentally double booked people are just now. I was late.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will make mistakes, but I promise you it's not intentional to hurt you. Your job is to hold on to yourself. And if you can bring them up to me.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to talk a little bit about this concept of
Of guilt.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you that rally around at all this weekend.
Nick: Um, you know, like
Nick: Not really. So what what actually was happening as
Nick: I kind of quickly got over like whatever was happening then
Nick: But it's kind of been like
Nick: Really like melancholy. Like, I think, yeah, I think that I'm not like specifically in relation to that, like, I'm pretty sure like mostly like that's rationalized like that that memory, and for the most part, but I've really been thinking about other things like
Nick: Like for example, like my like my ex relationship and you know you said like, at one point, you know, it's, I won't respond in like anger, but I'll respond in like
Nick: A different way. And so I kind of like have been moving my head around that and like not being like so angry, but I just like makes me sad. You know, like thinking about it like feeling so
Nick: What I'm getting at is, I think, like,
Nick: In certain aspects. I'm like feeling things like
Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe they match better. I mean, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe there's a better match, maybe. Sad, really matches grief. I'm I lost an image of myself and have I was going to be a husband and then we'd have kids like we're grieving.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is grief and sad is a very standard right response melancholy to coming to terms with. Here's my expectation and here's reality. Yeah. Oh, what a difference. Oh, they look so different. They look so different. Ah, so painful. I'm grieving this expectations image of myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's what you the next step after that that becomes the problem if you now label as if you're not supposed to be grieving.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not supposed to be sad. That's the one that gets risky. We're, we're supposed to feel sad. What kind of sociopath, would you be if you didn't grieve the loss of a of a branch or something like of course you are.
Nick: Yeah, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the meaning you put on top of that is if you're not supposed to feel sad that matches.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it okay
Gwenevere Abriel: That you're sad and I'm curious about the thoughts that are going on. Also,
Nick: Yeah, well,
Nick: I think it's okay.
Nick: Like the thoughts kind of
Nick: Surrounding that, you know, I guess.
Nick: You said, Have you felt guilt. Well, maybe not surrounding that one experience but weirdly like my sister. I was they came out with my sister, the other day, and
Nick: Her boyfriend like called her and he's like, kind of as a problem with like
Nick: Being controlling a little bit. Not like abusive, but like, kind of like always checking up on her a particular and I thought I heard me in that phone call.
Nick: And I was like holy shit. Like, no wonder. So I've definitely been experiencing like a sense of like
Nick: No wonder this person did that, like, you know, so I probably turn that into like maybe unhealthy guilt or something. Okay, but just seeing like, hey, I need to change.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now that's that's healthy
Yeah, that's more
Nick: Like of course you like I'm warning, like the past of like what happened there.
Nick: But like I definitely see an opportunity to be like, I don't want to be that guy on the phone, who's like so terrified like to lose someone who's like not even in any way like against him. You know, so are you ready. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the neat thing is the power that you get is being able to label that
Gwenevere Abriel: And if if you say, oh, I need to change or look at that. My and security is what maybe this other guy was doing it. But look, I see his insecurity.
Gwenevere Abriel: And and I don't want to do that I'll end up pushing maybe pushing people away or irritating people or it's an unpleasant conversation on the phone that just could have been a nice little. Hey, how was your day is this whole like sparring match.
Gwenevere Abriel: Defensiveness and
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, almost like a parent child thing. It's like, wait, ripples here. And if you can just say, oh yeah, I'd like to do more of this and less of this then. Okay. But if your next thought is on the cause of the end of my marriage. I'm a shit. Well, then we're not at a healthy place.
Nick: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder if that's where you're going with it.
Nick: That's the balance that I'm trying to find
Nick: I definitely am getting like parts of that, like, I mean, at what point is to help you to accept like second responsibility for things is the real question.
Nick: I think that I'm like
Probably
Nick: Responsible like and I don't know how to not feel that
Gwenevere Abriel: You can look for. You don't know. There's no way for us to know we
Gwenevere Abriel: We wish we could so that we can have a perfect relationship in the future and always feel happy. And so we want to push into the future and predict it and control it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we try to do that by we can analyze ourselves and say, well, if I make this change. Why then this will be then I'll then this horrible thing won't happen. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All you have is right now. And as soon as you drift off into trying to control the future about something you've gone too far or you're going into the past.
Gwenevere Abriel: And beating yourself up and saying, See, see you can't do anything about that and you don't know. You don't know the real recipe. There's a whole other human being involved here a whole human being.
Gwenevere Abriel: That may have realizations, much like what you're going through. She may not have this realization for another five years or maybe next week. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you you you don't know this whole other humans experience your it's not 100% your fault. Okay, but what you do have some sale or is how you meet
Your next moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Where's this balance if you want, just for now. If you want to say, okay, well, what do I do with it. How do I manage accountability and not getting
Gwenevere Abriel: Into this shame cyclone right we just start going down. You're going to know it when you catch a label about yourself. You're going to know that the fastest. You say, Well, if I find
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm an asshole. I don't know what you call yourself or whatever, then that doesn't move. There's no growth. There's no solution in an asshole. But there is is
Gwenevere Abriel: And so this is the part that I want to know.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to do more of, let's just start there. And then the next question is going to be, what do you want to do less of, let's just go into when you said I want to change something. So what is the thing you want to do more of
Nick: Probably
Nick: Regulating those like extreme emotions, it's probably a good one, like inhibited.
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let me just see if we already have a goal in here already written out for that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we've got an action Rana tryna uh let's let's get real specific on that. How often, and we can add more emotional regulation skills, but why don't we just increased how how many times a day. Are you doing the box breathing.
Nick: Usually when feeling really probably two or three times a day.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if you had remembered to do them a few more times. Can you picture, you might have
Gwenevere Abriel: Had that that gap between stimulus like that irritation and aggravation and response that if you had access to emotional regulation, if you could regulate that you might have been able to create time patients and choice.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have that sense.
Nick: I think I'm
Nick: Thinking think that that's probably generally like an illusion to like anger and stuff like that.
Nick: Yeah, please. In my understanding, and I definitely have that like I've been really good with that, like, I haven't
Nick: irrationally angry except like one time in the past week.
Nick: But my real concern is like when it's like really sad and
Nick: Glass say like I was just like, pretty like said about stuff. And I kind of
Nick: Started to like breathe and then it
Nick: I mean, I'm trying to remember that outcome. Like, I don't think
Nick: I think it kind of didn't make me not sad, you know, I mean, like, obviously there. Yeah, you were on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that right
Gwenevere Abriel: As I want to do. I do want to do a little bit of the that em Dr around what you just talked about, about the sad, but a real quick. I want to finish what this part got started. Here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Eat. I want to emotionally regulate that's kind of your goal, right, you want to have a better. Okay, so let me just write that. Oops. Say it in your own words. So I can put it in quotes. I like to hear what people say.
Nick: Yeah, I think it was I think the word. We're going to better regularly extreme emotions.
There we go.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful. So the objective. This is how we're going to get there. This is just one task among many, but this is one you're going to increase the frequency from three times a day to five.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just do that. Okay, now you already told me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fine. I can really see its utility around angry yeah yeah but sad tends to be sort of a more, let's say,
Gwenevere Abriel: And mobilizing emotion. Right. It's not fight. It's not a fleet, it's a it's down regulation, the heart rate is probably already low
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, the breathing is probably already low. So then when I, you know, then I asked you to do this, breathing, you're like, well, but I'm in a relaxed body so you know what's not relaxed is your mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is where I really wonder. And that's why I want to do this, this work with you right now and is because I think you may be still having some of that labeling of yourself. I just really do think it might be going on. Can we can we, kind of, kind of get into some of the am Dr. Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, cool, cool, cool. Um, let me make sure I got messed up. We blue light handy, or is it
Gwenevere Abriel: And I think
We're going to do
Can you
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of get in touch with your, with your team of resources can kind of be present with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be in touch with sort of this spirit of the mountain and forest.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: I also wonder
Gwenevere Abriel: It and want to keep trying to carve out finding someone an actual person.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even if it's a great grandma or you saw it somewhere that really sort of embodies in a human, maybe even someone that you experienced a brief moment of it or you felt either wise, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wise figure nurturing for your what we have my grandfather as as protected. We've got a real person on that one. It'd be nice to have nurturing figure
Gwenevere Abriel: And even if it's me because it has to be me. So be it will start there, because then you'll recognize what you see in me and then someone else later on. You may say, You know what, I recognize that quality and so on. So, to an auntie that I only saw once or so scan.
Nick: It nurturing figure would be my sister, because she definitely
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, got it. So Christiana, yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just sort of get in touch with her for a minute. Okay, just sort of picture her nurturing quality and I'm going to do and I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: really slow. If you were here in front of me, I would probably be having the the buzzers. Or maybe I would ask to be tapping tapping the outside of your, your knees. I would kind of be. But we got to work with what we got here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to kind of close your eyes for just a moment and really be with the crowd, the presence of the quality of Christiana, notice how you said, very much so.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wanting your growth your development.
Only be in touch with that figure
Gwenevere Abriel: And then bring in
The protective figure
Gwenevere Abriel: Solid. Dependable personality that quality of your grandfather
Gwenevere Abriel: And have them interacting in some way. Sometimes they met a morph into some other being but just have them interacting in some way.
Gwenevere Abriel: And bring in this presence of a wise figure
Gwenevere Abriel: At this point it's this mountain.
Gwenevere Abriel: The spirit of the mountain for us.
Gwenevere Abriel: To be present with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do a little, little installing here have that
Gwenevere Abriel: go nice and should be slow here. So let's watch this light go left and right just holding them in your awareness. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if I can slow it down even more.
Right direction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah nice
Gwenevere Abriel: Christiana
Gwenevere Abriel: Nurturing
Your protective figure
Gwenevere Abriel: And immersed in the spirit of the mountain forest.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really give yourself permission to feel it.
Gwenevere Abriel: In your whole body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pay attention to your body kind of do a scan of how it's doing
Pay attention.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's bring them together. Nice. Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you tell me what thoughts or beliefs are coming up.
Nick: As its kind of tossing around the other different images and
Nick: Haven't really fully came up in terms of like thoughts but it's definitely like feeling like relaxation
Nick: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Where did you notice that in the body. Where do you know for sure. Your body will tell you if you're really
Gwenevere Abriel: Relaxed right like definitely like
Nick: My face. I kind of like washing, washing over my face and then like into
Nick: Limbs
Tingling and limbs and things like that.
Like
Nick: Almost like
Nick: Chest is like
Nick: Full of water, almost like
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what's your emotion right now.
Nick: I'm really just like tranquil, I would say, okay,
Gwenevere Abriel: So this might be good timing to visit now bring up into your awareness, the recollection of sadness probably over the last few days.
Gwenevere Abriel: THE WORST piece of that image.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can be whatever you want. Don't, don't get hung up on something you think I want to was the worst piece of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worst Picture. What are you picturing
Nick: I'm barely picturing like
Nick: As like what, yeah. It's like watching the show and like
Nick: Someone in like Florida South Carolina and so
Nick: To me that brought up like
Nick: Probably like memories of like
Nick: adventures with like my ex and like
Nick: Yeah, probably, like, a lot of really
Nick: You know, as I as like looking at the Spanish moss and I was like, oh wait, like I was like thinking how beautiful it was, but how like
Nick: There's probably at least in the foreseeable future. Not a chance that I could like visit the south east and be like happy with it, basically.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay I can't be happy with the southeast.
Nick: Yeah, because of the memories of, like, I guess.
Nick: What we're great memories turn to what is now loss associated with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the belief about yourself.
Nick: Probably surrounding that.
Nick: I would say the label that I that I put on myself is like
Nick: I'm abrasive
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we're going to call that the negative belief the negative cognition, so I know I said I can't be happy with the SE because right those memories you you've now more emphasized them somehow.
Gwenevere Abriel: They were good, and now you're not allowed to have them be good.
Nick: Yeah, because they they were
Nick: Good, but
Nick: They were good, because of the person that was in them along with the experiences. But now that the person is gone. It's like
Nick: Kind of like
Nick: When you multiply a positive and a negative, it becomes negative, so
Nick: The fact that there's
Nick: Negative factor news. Well, is it
Gwenevere Abriel: Person's gone so the memory is different now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm afraid of you to kind of pull into your into your mind the worst piece about imagery. Okay, only you know what that is.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this negative con concept of abrasive
Gwenevere Abriel: And this iteration is going to be faster. The light is going to be faster. We'll do it for about 30 seconds, hold it into your mind, I'm abrasive and that most intense image and picture.
Gwenevere Abriel: In together nice inhaling to the tummy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhaling letting it all go
Gwenevere Abriel: And see what comes up.
Nick: Just kind of
Nick: Thinking of like
Nick: Phone calls, similar to the one that I experienced like with my stepsister the other day and help people kind of like we can have that person sounded and how
Nick: That like
Nick: Scared little boy was like is me basically
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Go with that scared little boy is me pull up that image. Remember that one, you just have a little bit ago that Worst Picture scared little boys me hold those together your awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worst Picture and scared little boys me on those types of phone calls.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's inhale together nice belly breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhaling it all out, letting it go
Gwenevere Abriel: Once again, noticing what comes up.
Well,
Part of it. Yeah.
Nick: Basically like
Nick: The Acts of
Nick: That I'm like not
Nick: Very
Nick: Proud of generally come from.
Nick: Places of like vulnerability
Gwenevere Abriel: When I'm vulnerable. I do things. I'm not proud of. Yeah.
Nick: Pretty much and I'm
Nick: Like I definitely like
Nick: You know, make makes me like understanding, like a little more like
Nick: where that's coming from
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to go without okay hold on to that important piece when I'm vulnerable. I do things. I'm not proud of, and I understand it more
Gwenevere Abriel: And that negative bit
Gwenevere Abriel: right with that. Worst Picture that you were trying on earlier hold that together with
Gwenevere Abriel: When I'm vulnerable. I do things. I'm not proud of, and I, I understand.
More
Gwenevere Abriel: You only need to look at the light on either side. You don't have to watch it in the middle. I know it's hard and it's assessed.
Gwenevere Abriel: May want to switch back a little bit. I don't know if that straining your eyes and wants you to get hurt.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's bring them together. Inhale into the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And exhale it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Miss attunement to yourself via the visceral the body, the mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: thoughts and beliefs.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do
Gwenevere Abriel: don't edit yourself just let it just let it flow.
Nick: Yeah, so that person doing bad things.
Nick: I don't think that they're like exonerated of responsibility for the things that you know the scared little boy, there'll be in me would do, but I think it
Nick: Can at least like rationalize it and
I think like
Nick: Understand the reason why
It's kind of like
Nick: Like if I were outside myself like looking at which I kind of just was like, it's kind of pitiful like
Nick: Seeing like a person likes it terrified to
Nick: Lose that
Nick: This person can even like
Steal
like normal, like emotions at all times. Like,
Nick: I can't really let live in because of all the fear.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't let love man.
Nick: Yeah yeah like
Gwenevere Abriel: Because of all the fear.
Yeah.
Nick: Yeah, I would say.
Let's go.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's, that's a pretty powerful one. I can't let love in because of all the fear hold that WORST piece of that image that you had right those men. I think it was still about those memories or you know whatever that that image was
Gwenevere Abriel: Well those together can't love can't let love in because here.
Gwenevere Abriel: EXHALE EXHALE EXHALE EXHALE
Gwenevere Abriel: Train yourself and just catch what comes up.
Nick: Nice to
Fearfully and
Have
Nick: Like the courage to be able to
Nick: Take things on without
deflecting
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. So remember, earlier you had a self concept a negative one of I'm abrasive. Now, what's the positive one. You want to be thinking about yourself. I want to help this self concept of I am what
Gwenevere Abriel: Courageous. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to do this next iteration, it'll be slower. Make sure you're, you're not too close your eyes to get strained and right now I want you to bring up your team can you bring them up into your mind really immerse yourself with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be present with nurturing
Gwenevere Abriel: Be present with protective quality and wisdom and give me a little nod and you're really in it. Not imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: And in the mountain and for us to
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: hold those team members in your mind's eye with I am courageous.
Gwenevere Abriel: Courageous.
Gwenevere Abriel: And with the quality of nurturing its protection and wisdom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it there. And for a brief moment invite that worst image that you had earlier. See if you can pull it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: You still surrounded by this team.
Gwenevere Abriel: And a belief in the self, I am courageous and let's open your eyes. This will be slower. Make sure you're not too, too close. So don't want to strain your eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold them in your awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice inhale into the mouse.
Gwenevere Abriel: And exhale quite deliberately letting it all go empty out that long really nice and flat let it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pay attention to what comes up.
Nick: It's kind of like
Nick: All of those qualities and
Nick: The protective, you know, the whatever they are.
Nick: They are, they kind of came together like images like
Nick: Like a white plasma like swirling like a like a dust devil or like a cyclone or something like that or a tornado.
And
Nick: Any thing that kind of came through.
Nick: Was just like shredded like any kind of like
Nick: Thing that was like sad or
Nick: Bad images of like
Nick: We're kind of like shredded in the
Gwenevere Abriel: Cyclone and the cyclone gets really got started. Yeah, maybe like a
Nick: Like a raging hot Inferno like
Nick: Like a firestorm kind of thing. And it was kind of like
Nick: Like shut it up in that
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go with that. And she'll hold that imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: I am courageous and hold that negative image that you had earlier THE WORST piece of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale,
Gwenevere Abriel: Just noticing what comes up.
Nick: That
There's an opportunity to be able to take on
These sorts of things that are happening and
Kind of like
Nick: Yesterday I like have this
Nick: Profound like well the Preface is like like my friend gave me like a little bit of a, like a weed cookie like a little tiny bit and I didn't think I ate enough to get really high and I ate like this little tiny bite, but he wound up being like really strong and so normally I panic.
Nick: And as this like
Nick: whirlwind of emotions was like coming around me. I was like,
Nick: Like steadfast and calm, because I
Nick: In my life like at least I'm doing something about it like
Like, although things are like
Kind of rocky, it could be some doing something
Gwenevere Abriel: In terms of emotional healing and like trying to dressing. So I think I'm doing something about my emotional healing. Yeah.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: A little extra something here. I want you to picture, whether it be maybe you're nurturing figure, you're protected figure or you're wise figure. See if there's something that one of them could do to help you.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if there's a question to something you want to ask them to do for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: See what comes up with that invitation.
Nick: It's pretty vague, but
Nick: I'm asking like the
Nick: Kind of like the spirit of, like, you know, the earth like
Nick: How to make sense of everything. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go with that. I want you to really picture. Give yourself permission to ask your question.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you, what's the question, can you help me make sense of
Gwenevere Abriel: How do I make sense of all of this. How do I make sense of all of this. Okay, so picture you're still with every your whole team but directed to this spirit earth he be with protection, the quality as well as nurse runs
Let's see what comes up. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: How do we make sense of all this. Let's look at this light.
Gwenevere Abriel: interest not to to close.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you notice just now.
answer would be.
Gwenevere Abriel: Think about the answer. A B.
Nick: And I think it was really like
You don't need to
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let's go with that the answer from spirit. Earth is you don't need
Gwenevere Abriel: To know how to make sense of all of this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Without censoring what are you noticing.
Nick: Like to be in a position to just
Nick: Experience and not
Kind of
See everything through this lens of
Nick: Mistrust or
Nick: Kind of like
Nick: Negative views or
Make any kind of like judgmental way to say it, just like
Gwenevere Abriel: Scan your resources, real quick, who has information. Is it planet, right, is it spirit earth cristiana your grandfather someone else that you can ask
Gwenevere Abriel: About the maybe the lens, they use, how do they need the world without mistrust. How do they trust, but make it your own question. And what they go
Nick: Through practicing mindfulness
Nick: I've had glimpses of that being really effective before
Nick: Probably think if anyone were to say that
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go with that Nick. I've had glimpses of the value of mindfulness. Now I want you to pull up that worst image. Remember, long ago you were talking about those memories and
Gwenevere Abriel: The worst piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've had a glimpse of this practice of mindfulness
Gwenevere Abriel: And how to meet a world, how you meet the world.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on, in your awareness. I've had a glimpse, and it's practicing the mindfulness
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold that force negative image, only you know what that is.
Gwenevere Abriel: And attacks. Hello. That was nice and slow, and with intention. There you go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice cool gentle pace.
Gwenevere Abriel: attuning to yourself in this moment without censoring
What's coming up, you're gonna
Always go back to the picture like
Just a river.
Nick: Like it's like a river, just like floating or like just like little just quickly but slowly like moving by and
I think
Nick: The answer is something like that.
Nick: Feeling is like somewhere in like
This balance between being able to understand that.
Nick: That like at the end of the day, like nothing that happens is like a big enough to to like
Nick: Crush someone
Nick: But there's also
Nick: But you also need to give life enough like meaning to where you're not like a nihilist
Nick: So I don't know. I think there's just some blend somewhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: She tell me what emotion, you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: You look confused.
Nick: Yeah, I would. I would probably have a blend between like
Nick: tranquility, but also like trying to like
Nick: really figure out like yeah confusion.
Nick: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the body is the body tranquil
Gwenevere Abriel: The body is yeah and confused. Is this much like what a weekend is like for you, where you sit with the confusion. Am I supposed to be sad is the status forever is who I am is that
Gwenevere Abriel: Just a common familiar experience this confusion.
Nick: Not really.
Decide. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is this is new.
Nick: This is unfamiliar.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So once again, help me there was this sense of both there's this is it a balancing of understanding and something else. And what's the meaning of my life like that or what was it,
Nick: Like, I think.
Nick: I've gotten to the point where you know rationalized everything that ever happens in life, like, Oh, well, we're just a bunch of
Nick: Floating evolved like monkeys on a rock coursing through space and millions of billions of lives billions of died, nothing that we do really hold significant meaning like I've had that experience to try to rationalize things
But there's also like
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel like there needs to be a balance of, like, and there has to be meaning. That's the opposite of that. Isn't it
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you got a good one, we're right at the top of the hour, but next. That's a really good when you're you're facing some existential stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Got this imagery, you've given yourself this, this freedom to have forgiveness and acceptance, it's not that big a deal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, right. You can maybe picture yourself looking down at the planet. We're all just a bunch of like it's just a bunch of who cares kind of things. Right. And yet, how do I also give things, meaning
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. Oh, you're on to some really important stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: And since I don't have a lot of time. I want to schedule another appointment with you my next clients knocking on the door, but I want what I'm thinking is
Gwenevere Abriel: In the short term,
Gwenevere Abriel: My invitation instead of going to right. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know which you're you're asking a big existential question. We know we all are faced with this in our development all faced with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it turns out, and I'm not trying to sell you on something.
Gwenevere Abriel: In any kind of slick way. I'm just saying if until you find your own, you might want to play with it might end up being
Gwenevere Abriel: That love is really the only thing
Gwenevere Abriel: That what you give
Gwenevere Abriel: And what you notice I this person showing me love in their own way, what you decide to focus on when it comes to love.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the only thing that's important. What you're doing is living in fear and you're acting out and you don't really like the way it went. You were treated with fear and ignorance and you hurt.
Gwenevere Abriel: The opposite of fear is love. When you're in love with yourself and others in a very broad way I'm saying it. There's no fear. They don't actually exist at the same time.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you want to play with something over this week, or days when we next each other just play with that a little bit. You can argue with me and say, No, that's not true sort of as a Socratic sort of discussion in this seeking of understanding and how to balance.
Gwenevere Abriel: In my experience, and religion seems to offer lots of different approaches. Right. It ends up being love
Gwenevere Abriel: People hurt us out of fear. Fear of scarcity fear. There's they're not enough, they don't have enough someone else has more. I need to keep my stuff. I'm going to fight for it. I'm going to hurt us. You don't take my stuff. There's only a little bit of stuff when we're in love.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got it all to share. IT'S ALL I'M NOT AFRAID THERE'S ENOUGH. I don't live in scarcity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just play with it and see what comes up for you see where it see where it goes. When do you want to meet again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know you're watching your finances, you gotta pay attention to that. I understand.
Nick: The weird thing is I got a claim for my insurance saying that they covered Braveheart like for one of their appointments so I'm like, trying to find filling and see, like, why is my insurance coverage.
Gwenevere Abriel: So go and I would say log into virtual clinic and and speak with I think it's Krista bending.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm Krista bi n and i n g
Gwenevere Abriel: And asked because maybe it's just a matter of a particular filing some little thing needs to be done. That's a good sign.
Nick: Yeah, like I have no ideas from other people in ritual clinic.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not trained for it. I'm telling you, say, hey, I understand. I'm going to go ahead and ask to speak with Krista Benning not I'm gonna have to speak with the owner. Okay, so just that's all nice and everybody's just kind of move your way up. Yeah. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to reach out to me with the next time.
Or
Nick: Are you doing Saturdays still
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's right. Now I am I seem to be able to be handling not okay. I'm really likes that early so either seven or eight o'clock.
Nick: Yeah, I think, eight or seven, I think.
Gwenevere Abriel: 730
Nick: Yeah, I think 730 cents. Great.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can go on half hour because it's the weekend and then everybody else because I don't have any else anyone else booked and then it'll just be on the half hour at that point. So there we go, 730 we got that in place and I would jump right into virtual clinic right away you know
Nick: I'll let you know if that for some reason doesn't work. Like if buildings all messed up. So I will talk to Christina. Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're welcome. You did some hard work today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm proud of you. Thank you for your help. You bet. Because you deserve.
Sean
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright so we got a little bit of an elite moment, just because I was talking to someone. So let me open up the note for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But while I'm opening up and know you can kind of fill me in a little bit about maybe how you been feeling maybe emotions and they've been up and down, or how you been doing
Shaun w: I've been doing all right just working working a lot but
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I think about work and I'm always sort of hoping boy. I hope it stays interesting for Sean
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what
I remember saying
Shaun w: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's still a challenge for you, right, because you're like the point. First, you really are doing a specialized task.
Shaun w: Now just they assigned me a position my boss bought me dinner said that he appreciate my work that I worked really hard for him and he bought me dinner.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice.
Shaun w: That was pretty cool. Feels good. It's nice to be
Shaun w: Isn't it yeah I was pretty cool them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now again, I'm still opening up a note here so I'm a little distracted.
Gwenevere Abriel: Any, anything else, sort of, you know, in groups. I only have like 20 seconds to hear from people
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hardly a group, it's a it's really just a sort of a
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of a point of departure. You know, I bring up a topic. And this is really where we get to talk a little bit more about it did. Was there anything lingering that maybe you wanted to say. And there wasn't enough time.
Shaun w: No, I was I was fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright. And let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just curious. The
Gwenevere Abriel: Over this last month I've had a lot of success, doing the the EM Dr work in here through telemedicine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, but I don't know if you feel enough trust here.
Gwenevere Abriel: For us. Oh, y'all. You don't know what it is. I'll tell you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's your truly God today. I'm so sorry. I'll have to be doing that.
Shaun w: Weird
Shaun w: I know it looks weird.
Gwenevere Abriel: Try not to get too distracted by it, you can always laugh at me, but
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: I movement.
Gwenevere Abriel: Desensitization and Reprocessing now the actual I movement isn't the absolute necessary part. It's the bilateral stimulation. So, for example,
Gwenevere Abriel: You might have. If you are here with me, you would have
Gwenevere Abriel: Two little buzzers. One would be in your in your left hand and one would be in your right and you would have this bilateral awareness and what it does. Now I can't do that with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what I can do is I have this light that can go from left to right in front of you, if you're on a laptop. If not, I do this adjusted approach.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the bottom line is the mechanism of change is that this bilateral movement.
Gwenevere Abriel: It distracts the mind enough so that, let's say there's pieces you know how you've identified as having a post traumatic stress disorder, right, you've got some symptoms and some interesting stuff that might even be happening at night when you're sleeping.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what this work does is it allows you to reprocess that
Gwenevere Abriel: Even before that you get to be desensitized from it, which means it won't be as distressing. You know how you've described symptoms of
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I've got one right in front of me. I've got have strong negative feelings, such as fear or anger guilt or shame like that was a high one. So the idea behind it would be
Gwenevere Abriel: To not have that kind of intensity anymore to be desensitized from it and the reprocessing is let's say there's a particular memory. You don't want to be
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't want that unconscious sort of intruding on your life anymore. You want to have a different experience with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What can happen is, and I can't explain it all at once because some pretty complex phenomenon. But what we do is you bring you don't have to tell me the neat thing about this is if you ever say
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what, I don't want to have to tell you all my stories. I don't want to tell you all the gruesome details, that's okay. That's what's neat about this approach. It's not storytelling where you
Gwenevere Abriel: Say, everything you did. All you do is you hold it in your awareness, you pull it up from your memory you hold it there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I do this bilateral stimulation, I might ask you to have a particular resources resourcing that's a positive installation. We also might do putting a positive cognition, because maybe you have a belief, I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm incapable, you know, so some people have that one. That might be one. And what we do is we replace it. We want to replace it with it. I'm capable. So if there was an experience in one's life of helplessness. What's nice is
Gwenevere Abriel: We can loosen up that network and we can bring in some positive cognition, because the basic premise Sean is that our brain right you know that it's not a spiritual thing. It's an Oregon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Shaun w: In our brain and
Gwenevere Abriel: There's little, little our thoughts are actually just these little
Gwenevere Abriel: Synaptic responses. It's like chemistry. It is our thoughts, our chemistry doesn't feel like that. Does it doesn't feel like there's a chemistry going on up and in our brain. It feels almost like feels almost spiritual doesn't it like so personal.
No.
Shaun w: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's not real, try and explain it. How does it
Shaun w: Turn Tony little older.
Gwenevere Abriel: But my point is, if there was an alien coming down to this plan. I won't dovetail off topic too far. But how would you explain a thought to something like a dude. I don't know. Right.
Shaun w: Yeah. Is it something we don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so the best we have is to say, okay,
Gwenevere Abriel: What's happening is an Oregon has these these synaptic connections and they're firing you have over here somewhere. A whole network of, let's say, let's say you've had, which we've sort of established you've had some traumatic events.
Gwenevere Abriel: They may be cut off from positive thoughts they might sit in isolation and might be difficult to get to in a volitional and an on purpose way.
Gwenevere Abriel: What this em Dr work can allow us to do is to actually loosen them up so they're not this dissociated separate part of you that you have access to all of yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it can start to have more positive empowering connections, they'll stop intruding into the unconscious. And the neat thing is let's say you know one of the huge symptoms for people that have this PTSD is their, their vigilant, like they they feel as if
Gwenevere Abriel: That historical event, the intensity is happening right now. You can feel that scary that enraging that helpless and what can happen through this process.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is
Gwenevere Abriel: It's set in the past. Now there's a distance from it and it's not felt as if it's being relived so that now new moments you meet a new person. And oh, you know, normally, that guy, boy, he would have
Gwenevere Abriel: I would have just been tripping right i wouldn't really have this big reaction. And now I notice
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, that's his issue. It's not mine. He's not a threat to me because there's a jerk and I don't need to talk to him. So that's kind of the goal. It's sort of just say the science behind it. The hippocampus is the one that holds all your, like all those memories.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what can happen with the, the amygdala is this rush of emotion. Typically, it's a
Gwenevere Abriel: threat response can cut off the ability of the prefrontal cortex, including rational thinking and things like that. It can cut it off. So all you're left with are the emotions it and then it sends all this cortisol.
Gwenevere Abriel: Over to the hippocampus, which means that the memories are all screwed up. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: They that timeframe can be off. It doesn't have the right timestamp. So what can be happening is you might be reliving it as if it was happening in the present, instead of in the past. So that's a lot of blah, blah, blah. I don't want to bore you but bottom line is it's amazing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have not doing
It.
Shaun w: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me. You want to try it, or what
Shaun w: Do you want to. Okay.
Sorry, the years
Gwenevere Abriel: I know it looks ridiculous, but what are you going to do
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a lot of preparation to it. So we'll probably spend the next couple sessions kind of preparing, but so here we go. We'll get this first question which has to do with technology right now are you using a phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. So when we actually do the bilateral stimulation. Let me show you what it is I'm going to do lots of educating on what to expect. I'm gonna share my screen with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to explain why I'm sharing this with you and I'm showing it because
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to have to have about a foot and a half, because you're only on a phone, right, notice how your eyes will only go about an inch or two apart. That's not enough to get a bilateral experience. So this is what we do.
Gwenevere Abriel: We modify for my folks that only have a fun and they don't have like a lot a laptop.
This is what I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: So then let's say you and I set up and I say, okay, Sean. Today we're going to actually do some iterations of the EM Dr.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to have you have something and something about the same height and about about shoulder width apart and then look what will happen because they're about that distance. You can see my eyes. Yeah. Now I get the bilateral stimulation. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm working with.
Shaun w: You all may go grab two water bottles.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let's go do it.
Shaun w: Let's go see if we get that the technical. Be right back. Absolutely.
Shaun w: It's
Gwenevere Abriel: The same height because we want your eyes to be going horizontal. So try and get them about
Shaun w: A little taller.
Shaun w: They're pretty pretty
Gwenevere Abriel: On the outside, that's lovely. Put them on the outside of your fun so that if your eyes were moving, they would be moving something like this about a foot and a half apart. We don't want them strained.
Shaun w: Lunch. You see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let me show you again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we're almost there. I won't see the objects, you'll have it off to the side, sort of the same. I don't need to see the container only really, you need to you can set that yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so here's
Gwenevere Abriel: A painter. If I had three hands. The other one would be about right here.
Like this.
Shaun w: They're both for born
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: My guess is that container on the left is probably because I can see it, push it back a little bit so that those two containers are are right next to each other, but they're behind the phone, they're set back a little bit so that I'll show you.
Shaun w: On the phone. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'll tell you why here in a second, because unfortunately because you're on a phone. I'm not going to be using the blue light. You're going to actually be watching my hand.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is how it will go. We're not starting. I'm just doing the technical part so that when we are ready, really easy setup, but I'll be asking you to do is I'll be you'll be following the rate
Gwenevere Abriel: Of where I'm pointing. So you look at the top of the container over there and then you'll go to this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this one, and out of the corner of your eye, you basically can tell because I'm in the middle. You don't have to stop talking me. It kind of can tell that this is about the rate
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm not going to change the rate in the middle. So you can just assume it basically stays at that right can you be
Shaun w: I guess I can see my peripheral
Shaun w: Slogan well
Gwenevere Abriel: That's exactly. Yep. And so I will be doing this. That's really nice. Now to me ask you. Is it straining your eyes.
Shaun w: Back a little That's beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so then the next thing you probably hear me say, as it will say, I'll say, Sean. And now let's inhale together and you'll inhale.
And then
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale, and then you'll hear me say something like Sean what comes up for you without censoring it. What did you notice and that's an invitation to oh I noticed my stomach.
Gwenevere Abriel: It relaxed or I noticed my mind went here and you tell me what that thought was, or you'll have a feeling and actual emotion. I don't have any preference of what it is I'm just interested in whatever comes up.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you probably be a pretty short explanation, and then I'll make a decision about a direction to go. Sometimes it's about desensitization. And these iterations can go this fast these by lateral movements could be
Gwenevere Abriel: When we're in a sort of a negative network and we're desensitized they'd be fast and when we're installing something positive.
Gwenevere Abriel: There'll be. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, so, um, you're doing great are is any of this just to cookie and to weird
Shaun w: No, that's all right.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, good. So let's keep going. Let's do the part we want to we got to really make sure you're safe. And so I want to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: resourcing
Gwenevere Abriel: And that has the resourcing comes from establishing those three those three figures if I've done these with you and it didn't make it.
Gwenevere Abriel: copied into your notes, then just say, oh, we did that one already. And just remind me what they are, because they just didn't make it into the note. So my, my first one is identifying the, the three figures. I'm wanting you to get into your image into your creative mind someone that
Gwenevere Abriel: Was a protective figure. So think of someone in your mind that it can be real or imagined that is a protective figure
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone you feel safe around for some people they have so few in their life, they have to go imaginary they picture someone from a movie.
Shaun w: That was thing my grandma.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Love it. We got grandma and and is it okay if I refer to her as grandma.
Shaun w: Or do you want to do growing
Gwenevere Abriel: Perfect. Okay, so she'll be the one for which is it protective
Shaun w: Nurturing or woman protecting
Little
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go one by one fruit first one right now who comes up his grandma.
Gwenevere Abriel: Grandma is definitely has that protective like you felt safe in her presence.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah so glad you have that imagery. A lot of people don't have that. Now I want you to picture and give us just go nice and slow, and make sure that we've got just what you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: When it comes to a nurturing figure. This is someone who wants for you all the growth all the development all your potential wants it for you, supports it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Who comes to mind.
My grandma.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. She is okay, Grandma. Again, beautiful, and then wise someone that has this sort of wisdom. This
Shaun w: ground up.
Shaun w: She's to talk to me about things all the time, right, so we've really got to go to here is going to be grandma, you've already got it consolidators so we got why speaker as well. His grandma. Excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're just doing the setup right now. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So now let's do the
Gwenevere Abriel: Container I never know whether people are in the group when I develop these little
Gwenevere Abriel: Skills, but there might be times we're right at the end of a session because we only have an hour, really, we need about an hour and a half to do this really, really thoroughly but we work with what we got.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's say you're still kind of in distress, and we want to put that that memory or maybe an emotion kind of away.
Gwenevere Abriel: For a little while for a week, even until you and I on packet together and we can continue processing it safely. It's kind of nice to have a metaphor for putting your emotions, the negative ones in a container. Did you do remember developing an emotional container with me.
Shaun w: Know, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: The instructions would have sounded like this and we can do it right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's got to be big enough strong enough to hold all your stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: So as soon as you think like my emotional life you know the maybe the anger or fear or maybe a band. And then I don't know what they are for you it's deeply personal for you. And we don't know what they are yet but just imagine that there's a container that it it can hold it all.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's strong enough and it has a lid and even a locking system and tell me what your creative mind comes up with
Shaun w: Like a, like a shipping container.
Gwenevere Abriel: And okay, yes. That's a thick steel, isn't it. Yep. Okay. And is that that locking thing with the
Shaun w: locks in terms
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and then certainly big enough certainly strong enough, I could see that in. Is there also a lock on it.
Shaun w: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And are you the only one with the key.
Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What we're going to leave it like that. That's beautifully done. I'm going to refer to it as a shipping container. There's a lock on it and you're the only one with the key. So you'll right away, you'll know that one. Let's do another another
Gwenevere Abriel: Preparation image.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's also going to be times where it's not enough to just have it sitting in the container or might be a combination of not only the container. But now that ship is sailing away.
Shaun w: With the container. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: See ya. So, all right. You can choose that particular distancing metaphor, you make
Gwenevere Abriel: Another one, I'm going to give you some examples. And then you pick one that really resonates for you. So for some people.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's exactly that. It's I'm on. I'm on the dock and i'm i'm completely encased and immersed.
Gwenevere Abriel: In protection nurturing and wisdom and I stay here on the dock completely sort of embodying all of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Support right I stay here with that. And then what I see is, I see the ship and I can see it slowly getting smaller and smaller until I can't. It's not even a dot anymore. It's like gone
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people it's that some people, it's a spaceship. The distancing. Is it gets on spaceship and it's going into outer space for some people it's a helium balloon Sia or it's a train.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it gets smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller or it's a river and write this
Gwenevere Abriel: Distressing concern or memory is on a log or a leaf and it just sort of floats down the river in your left once again on the riverbank
Gwenevere Abriel: With all of the resources of safety wisdom and protection that you need. And what's traveling further and further away. Is this sort of negative piece that gets further and further away for you what imagery really suits you.
Shaun w: Sit on the ocean watching a leave my ship. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Our distancing metaphor is going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: The ship sailing away.
Shaun w: Notion yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: In the ocean. Yeah, and how fast is it going, would you say
Shaun w: Well, they
Shaun w: Kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: They gotta go slow but you. I mean, it's a metaphor. You can have it go as fast or as slow as you want.
Shaun w: We don't know. You wanna, you want to exact miles per hour.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. No, I was just doing you'll do whatever you need. At the moment, that's just fine. Okay. For some people, there's a real strong sense of know I wanted to go faster. That's all. Because this is imagination. You can have whatever you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Fantastic. Okay, another one. And then we have done a an amazing job of preparation.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this other one has to do with a safe space.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you. You know how some people say, Oh, I've got my happy place. I've got my safe space they can kind of go bring themselves to somewhere where they permit themselves to have a relaxed body and relaxed mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have a real or imagined safe place.
Shaun w: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Think of all
Shaun w: The we need want me to think of one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, okay. So in your real life. You can't even summon that up right it's not really
Shaun w: A home and home safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Safe at Home. Okay.
Shaun w: No one knows where I live, or nothing okay so home.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for now, we'll go with home. I have my suspicion that might need it might need a little bit of development, but we'll go with that for now. Okay. And let me just check in on it. You said home in your home now. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what emotion. Are you feeling right now.
Shaun w: Oh enthused
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, yeah.
Shaun w: Yeah, I want to do this. Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I'm excited to
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so that's that's a sign that this home image, you have
Gwenevere Abriel: Is going to be useful, and the fact that it's real. And you're actually in it is even, even better, because there might be times when
Gwenevere Abriel: Your subjective unit of distress, you might be getting activated and there might say, Okay, let's go to this safe place. Why don't you look around the room and be present in your moment now.
Gwenevere Abriel: This other stuff is in history. Let's take a look around. Now, and be very present in this home okay so that might be something we'll do
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me check the time actually. We weren't doing pretty darn good. So what we can do is we can do some of the positive
Gwenevere Abriel: Installation it's good. That sounds like it like robotic words but it's basically really getting
Gwenevere Abriel: Installed really really clearly I using the bilateral stimulation out of the very slow rate.
Gwenevere Abriel: These support figures. These nurturing wise and protected for years. So you can get a first hand experience of it this morning we'll do a little bit of it nice and slow. It'll probably be at a pace like that and
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll get a first impression of it. So let me get set up just a little bit. You've got your two
Shaun w: Containers or
Shaun w: 12 hours apart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay.
Shaun w: That's how far you want to go right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep, that's about right. And the key is that your eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Those objects need to be to the side because your eyes, need to be going left and right hemisphere, they need to go left and right. We don't want them sort of stopping here and only going left, WE WANT BILATERAL okay
Shaun w: You want me to get closer to the camera.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let me do a little test your eyes should be a bit like what you see with mine not strained.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you can clearly see they're moving
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and and are you comfortable doing that.
Shaun w: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and you think you'd also be able to see my my hands, setting the pace.
Shaun w: Then that's
Gwenevere Abriel: That's beautiful. So let's also do I can't, I need to stop sign. If you can then nothing will stop. And there's also
Gwenevere Abriel: And again, you've never done this before and I get it, but you might also have a sense of I want it to go a little longer. You can also give me a sign like continue the the bilateral stimulation for some people having this distraction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Back and forth is is a welcomed experience and they want it to continue a little longer, and maybe I'm I'm making them a little short, maybe you want. Maybe 40 seconds or something. I want you to know that you can say
Gwenevere Abriel: Too much I want to stop. You can do that. You can also kind of have motion. Hey, keep going.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe there's something almost coming into your consciousness and you want to sit with it a little bit longer. Well then that's what we'll do. Okay, you're a part of this. It's not just me running the show.
Gwenevere Abriel: My role is really, I'm going to be sort of paying close attention to your, your statements that you when I do a check and I say what's coming up for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to be paying close attention to also how you're feeling how the body's doing what the thoughts are and whether the timing is to focus
Gwenevere Abriel: On positive cognition or we need to be focusing on desensitisation. But today, we're just going to be focusing on positive right yeah yeah should be a really nice feeling
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for you, Sean. We have grandma is just amazing. You have an actual person.
Shaun w: Well, she's dead now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just about to ask you that.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's okay, but it's she still lives in that imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah body felt sense of feeling safe.
Shaun w: She took care of us. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: She took care of us. That's right. Okay, so we're going to do this together.
On this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So first start with your eyes closed, the degree that you can tolerate it again. I'm just getting to know you and I don't know your tolerance for for closing eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you feel safe enough to close them all. I'm going to be asking you to do and I'll be doing it with you. So I'm not staring at you is I want you to really get in touch with the quality of grammar.
Shaun w: Will close my eyes. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when we do the bilateral stimulation on I'll ask you to open and but for now I really want all of your intention, all of your focus to be on pulling up from the imagination and from memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: The feeling in your body of knowing. Right, I'm safe with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm encouraged to grow and develop
Gwenevere Abriel: And she is someone that is wise and be with that quality.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not only in your imagination, but also pay attention to how your body responds
Gwenevere Abriel: As your present with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just sit with it. And once you really have that sense, just give me a little head nod.
Gwenevere Abriel: To there.
Shaun w: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for a little while. I'd like you to open your eyes and you're going to follow the pace of my finger, hold, hold, ground in your awareness in that nurturing quality and just be present with it just left and right. Those tops of those two objects.
Gwenevere Abriel: At this nice slow pace.
Gwenevere Abriel: Continuing to hold that quality in your awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: And shine. Let's breathe in deep into the belly. Inhale, and then
Gwenevere Abriel: Exhale takes a little bit longer.
And let it go.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what's it like for you to be present with that imagery
Shaun w: It's relaxed. Yeah, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's nice to be relaxed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there let's go a little bit further, since that that happened quite easily for you, you were able to have a relaxed body and it sounds like your mind was also able to sort of be present with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you were to
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now I'm going to need to do what's called target mapping. I've got to kind of find out with you where to start.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get to it today, but maybe we will, but I've got to start to look
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people, their current life is so triggering that we end up saying, I'm going to make this stuff up. So this is not about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: My cousin that's living with me. I want to
Gwenevere Abriel: rip his head off his neck.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the current. So you notice like I'm just triggered all the time trigger for some people it's this. So that's present day for some people it's
Gwenevere Abriel: I have so many nightmares and that I wake up, so I hook up crying.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it lasts for three hours. And it's so hard to shake how my day starts and then I'm frustrated with everyone throughout the day. So you can see that a lot of it's this intrusion from history. It's creeping in. For some people it's this
Gwenevere Abriel: I worry about the future. I'm so preoccupied with worrying about my future. I'm like, I'll never be okay well what are these people think, what would they think about me. And oh, what if this doesn't work. Notice how my all my preoccupation is about the future.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for you just see which one seems
Gwenevere Abriel: Which one seems like that's kind of where your mind goes. Most often, past, present triggers or the future.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay. Yep. Okay. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: And is part of the appeal the enthusiasm, you were saying about this, this process that you won't have to tell me those gory details. Is that part of what is kind of appealing about the end or
Shaun w: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it that may be there'll be some relief from the intensity of the emotions.
Shaun w: Well, I guess I just
Shaun w: Wanted to do this little testing, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's treatment.
No testing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's. And just so you know, I like to reassure people. There's no way for you to do it wrong. You never have to wonder, Am I doing this right. You don't have to do that, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Your work is only to catch the uncensored response as quick as you can because if you're censoring. You know how in group, you were saying, well, sometimes I can placate
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll miss out on the healing if for even a fraction of a second, because we can get in the habit of saying what we think this. This person wants to hear but we rob ourselves of healing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Who cares what one of your things. This is your healing. Okay. This is about you getting the most out of this moment. So when I say okay so inhale exhale. And now, what did you notice
Gwenevere Abriel: That is the uncensored stuff, it might be, oh, I noticed I oh my throat just got constricted. I'm going to want to hear about that awareness or maybe then the next thing is my jaw. I just started grinding my teeth or you might say, I feel nauseous. Or you might say, I'm I feel rage.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or terror or my heart is beating out of my chest. I don't care what it is, but let it be your uncensored truth, because otherwise you're wasting your time right and this is your time. You can never get it back. Don't waste it.
Shaun w: Wasted enough
Gwenevere Abriel: Me. Come on now. All right, but so that's my spiel. I'm not going to get that feel, again, that one. So when I say uncensored unedited, that's what I mean every
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm trying to give you. I'm educating along
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's not normal talk therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to feel kind of different. It's not gonna be back and forth, back and forth. It's going to be you're going to share this little comment.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm going to say go with that. And then there's going to be another iteration. And that's the bilateral and then you'll share. And I'll say, go with that. And there'll be another. So it's not the normal Socratic dialogue that most therapists are doing okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, now let's see. Let me do a little bit of target mapping
Gwenevere Abriel: They said something about the past. You also said, No, I'm not worried about telling you the gory details when
Gwenevere Abriel: So how much you share with me is completely up to you. Just know that you can always you can hold it in your imagination. It's your choice whether you share it or not. So when you think of this past do you kind of know what it is that
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the most disturbing.
Shaun w: Oh yeah, I almost lost my life for somebody to do
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah, that's the one that I bet and AND HOW OLD WERE YOU WHEN YOU ALMOST LOST YOUR LIFE OR SOMETHING YOU DIDN'T DO
Shaun w: I was 19
Gwenevere Abriel: So young
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so this is where I'm doing the target mapping. Okay, so I kind of have this and you probably have this picture in your mind right now, right, an unpleasant one. I'm assuming
Gwenevere Abriel: And what's the emotion that goes with that that imagery. What's the emotion.
Confusion
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there anything else, any other emotions, combined with the
Shaun w: Mad
Gwenevere Abriel: Mad at age 19 YOU ALMOST LOST YOUR LIFE OUT mad and confused.
Shaun w: No control.
Shaun w: Hopeless.
Shaun w: Nothing like helplessness, to really bring up those intense feelings. All I had was the whole point. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You do recognize some hope.
Shaun w: Yeah yeah okay some hope.
Gwenevere Abriel: helplessness mad confusion.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: This one's a little harder to get to, so be patient with it. Okay. Just, just again, this is the uncensored let that free association stuff kind of flow and we'll get there.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just be present with I felt some confusion I felt mad helpless. There was, there was some hope but I almost
Shaun w: Hope is what kept me going.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep. Help kept yep yep yep
Gwenevere Abriel: And your age 19 and just, just for a moment. I want you to picture just a piece of that that memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is the hard part to go to. So, be gentle okay because they may not may not may not know what it is right away. These are harder to get to. So here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: As you're picturing this and you're feeling confusion mad helpless with some hope. What belief about yourself, did you have, what was the meaning that you were making about who you are. During that time.
Shaun w: A walk with my head, I
Gwenevere Abriel: I walk with my head. Hi.
Shaun w: I didn't do nothing. So I'm gonna, I'm not gonna walk with my head down.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you can finish this sentence.
Gwenevere Abriel: I believe I am
Shaun w: A good person. Yeah.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And from this is a scale that won't always be the scale from one to seven seven is it's absolutely true. I am a good person seven is it's absolutely true, or you
Gwenevere Abriel: Got a seven.
Gwenevere Abriel: And and age 19 would you say seven as well.
Shaun w: No, okay, 19 years
Shaun w: $19 pretty wild.
Shaun w: Violent
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I was wild and violent. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of picturing I almost lost my life right you've got your imagery. I don't know what it is that's yours, you're picturing it I was wild and violent feeling confusion mad helpless. I'm, I'm almost lost my life for something I didn't do
Gwenevere Abriel: What was the predominant belief about yourself, then
Shaun w: Were dominant belief about myself.
Shaun w: That I was going to make it through this
Shaun w: Because I kept thinking about just giving up.
Gwenevere Abriel: For a person like you. You say, I will make it through this
Gwenevere Abriel: You're almost there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder what you have to believe about yourself. At that time, you'll find it with the I Am.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard to get to just be patient with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am. Do you think that was back then I am
Strong
Gwenevere Abriel: And how true is that from one to seven seven is just yes
Gwenevere Abriel: And and it's even true back then as well. I'm strong.
Shaun w: Yeah.
Shaun w: I can't even explain to you what I went through it. It's crazy. Like it was all over the news every day and then everybody was to get killed these kids and they
Shaun w: They took me straight from the streets not convicted of nothing in the house me on get throw
Shaun w: Us for safekeeping. They said, so I was wondering how they put me in prison. I've ever been convicted of nothing. They told me that steep in house me on death row.
Shaun w: Yeah, me and my ME AND MY CO defendant and he's my best friend. Now he's on the streets to and they how's the weather at the same place. I did four years, he got out in 18 months.
Shaun w: But everybody was round was on death row homes and those the death penalty back then and misty
Shaun w: Yeah, and
Shaun w: The people would be banging on my walls. I couldn't sleep to call me a baby killer and all kinds of crazy shit.
Shaun w: So it was pretty bad.
Shaun w: This year was everywhere I went to this, you're wanting to do things to me they're drawn. I forgot me
Shaun w: My first week, they're checking my phone got mad to eat off the floor.
Gwenevere Abriel: You mentioned earlier, this sensation right this feeling of confusion. Can you share about what that was about confusion.
Shaun w: I just didn't understand how they were they were getting me on something right now, please. I've never even been. I was wondering are there rest mental place I've never even been to this place and I'm Jane and I couldn't understand it and I couldn't understand how the arresting
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay and the helplessness. Where do you think that was the, is that the same
Shaun w: Yeah, no control. They just didn't know what was going on. I don't control. I didn't even know what was going on.
Shaun w: I mean, the main of this gear that a homicide case thought I shot up his house.
Shaun w: He was a gang unit and people were telling that I shot up his house. And so he, he, like, really went after me really bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one I don't know what's going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that a really central. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Shaun w: Okay, yeah. No clue. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: Contributed to confusion to help
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep, and the mad, we check in on that one. Tell me where that feeling of mad, maybe came in.
Shaun w: The personnel falsely convinced on me. I was really mad at him. He came forward. Years later admitted that he lied, but I was does. That's where the magic comes in.
Gwenevere Abriel: so mad at that all sick user
Gwenevere Abriel: And your hope this is what kept you going
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think that hope came from.
Shaun w: I don't know, I just for some reason I knew, everything's gonna be all right in my mind. I kept the guy kept like convincing myself. Everything's gonna be alright. Is it is gonna it's gonna the tool is going to come out or do the mirror is like convincing myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Over and over, right, there's sort of an opposition to hopeless. So when it started to give up, you would do this cognitive part and you'd say, no, don't give up.
Shaun w: Yeah, it came down a couple times where I was just going to give up like that. The like then I just didn't do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you talking about taking your own life.
Shaun w: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now, see if you can catch. It's a different scale. This is one will use quite a bit is from zero
Gwenevere Abriel: To 100 right now how distressed. Are you from zero to 100. See if you can catch I how stressed, you are right now.
Shaun w: Right now the second
Shaun w: Oh mom always stressed out. I don't know why has
Gwenevere Abriel: No judgment about it. Just want to, I don't want to learn, you
Shaun w: At I always get worried. I don't get locked up for no reason.
Shaun w: My pure comes around my heart starts pounding away. It's like a mess with me something.
Shaun w: I don't know, I just get worried that something's gonna go wrong every day for a reason.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I get it. So notice
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have a judgment about it, but I want to take care of that pounding heart. I want to make sure that with the work that we're doing. I don't want you in so much distress, what will happen is the
Gwenevere Abriel: The prefrontal cortex won't be adding any new language. We won't be getting language and new story.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will be flooded and will be reached. Very traumatizing. I don't want that. What I want is all of the parts of the brain, continuing to communicate with each other, so I'm checking in, just now with
Gwenevere Abriel: Just talking about history how activating it is for you. And I don't know yet whether you can tolerate at or if I have to make sure right to take care of you that were down at 60
Gwenevere Abriel: At z 50 before we start doing some work. So it's going to take a little bit of time, but this is the first one I had to check in and see what is an ad for you for some people. They're like, No, I'm fine.
Shaun w: I'm fine. I'm all right is right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You well you're used to being
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, worried. Yeah.
Shaun w: But I worry a lot as my family told me like my sister and brother good, don't tell Sean, because then I'll start stressing a little crazy for nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So do you know, remember I was telling you earlier how some people look to the future worry is is a future oriented.
Shaun w: Things like what's going to go on and then you start believing in what you think.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right. So my guess is this extended period. These years of helplessness. During that time, we're going to drift away and then we'll start to sort of bring this session to a close, but you did amazing today. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What was happening in your body. And my concern for you is that you're still doing it. And so right away. I wanna, I want to address this, this stress response. You've got kicking all the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is you're releasing cortisol all the time. And what's that doing to your hippocampus. What's that doing to so many organs in your body.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not not healthy.
Gwenevere Abriel: not healthy. So this medicine that we're doing this talk therapy, the social medicine is going to help your physical body, okay to be
Gwenevere Abriel: At rest to be a piece with itself.
Gwenevere Abriel: This cortisol can literally it, it can erode the hippocampus, it messes with it and then it's harder to learn things it's harder to focus
Gwenevere Abriel: You just can't. Why can't I remember, I mean this guy just talked to me yesterday. How am I forgetting. So I would love to be able to do this work with you so
Gwenevere Abriel: We have a decreased intensity of what you're describing is worry
Gwenevere Abriel: In your everyday life. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I think we, I think we're getting somewhere. So there's this this experience in prison.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's set in motion. Right now this vigilance, that's like is pervasive you're constantly vigilant hearts racing. What if this happens again this, what is this thing that happened happens again. I can't let this happen again. Can't right is that I was
Shaun w: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it may be
Gwenevere Abriel: Where we start, but it also might be, and it'll only know by sort of dipping into it with you. It may be that this this piece here where you mentioned, I was wild and violent. There might be some information there that might go even deeper
Gwenevere Abriel: It could be
Gwenevere Abriel: An area that we we may want to explore as well. Okay. Because the older and the younger that we can identify
Gwenevere Abriel: The more effective it is at changing all of those other networks. If we can get at what's called a core negative cognition, we can get it. That guy effects, who just this whole chain reaction of the other pieces. Okay, so let's do a little, a little check in together.
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do this a few minutes ago, you were saying about it in the ad that was an approximation will we kept talking. Are you at a lower number now of distress or not. What number would you say right now.
Shaun w: Well, placed in
Gwenevere Abriel: About 80 okay so let's do this. Let's do some diet dramatic reading together. Okay, let's
Gwenevere Abriel: I taught you this already, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. Oh.
Shaun w: Yeah you did. When we first started the breathing thing. We first started. Yeah. The first we did with the group. Didn't you know
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, it's okay. Remember I told you about the stress cortisol messes with the memory, it messes with it. It corrupts it it's like corrosion
Gwenevere Abriel: If a campus is covered with these cortisol receptors. We can't have it continuing to flood it messes with our ability to learn and remember, doesn't matter. Let's go right here. Let's take care of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm going to do it with you and I will teach this as many times as you need. So, don't, don't be shy about. Can you go over that again. Happy to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the basic instructions are you and I are going to breathe in through our nose paying attention to everything we feel as we're breathing it in if it's cool. If it's warm
Gwenevere Abriel: And this is the part that's critical that you breathe in and you don't just breathe short up here. But indeed, you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Breathing down in the lower part of long. That's what makes the difference. So if you need to sit up straight and kind of, you can even do what I call the lazy boy pose this if you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Lazy Boy or the or the Superman pose where your, your, your arms on his whatever it is, or even tuck in your hands under your thighs. That's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the key is, and it can feel quite awkward is on the inhale and let's just try it together. You're going to inhale and you're going to expand.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your belly out. And the way to do that is to put air in the bottom of that long. It can be really awkward when you're not used to doing it. So try that a couple times just to see if you can even do it. So you just don't even worry about the timing.
Shaun w: Yeah, do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can, and you would know because if your hands right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, goes like this and you'll know you'll know because you won't you won't be doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: So shoulders won't be moving, you'll know you're getting a belly breath when
Gwenevere Abriel: Your shoulders barely move at all. So that focus is very intentional and it's supposed to take a lot of focus. Okay, that's, that's also working
Gwenevere Abriel: The brain and it's using this distraction technique. So we're going to be inhaling for four seconds breathing in through the nose and expanding that belly. Then we're going to hold it for four count. Then we're going to exhale for four out of the mouth, but really intentionally
Gwenevere Abriel: feeling it. It's important that you'd be feeling it to may seem ridiculous, but I can explain it later.
Gwenevere Abriel: On you want to feel it. So that's a completely out of the lungs, then you'll hold for for so it's right in Hill for four hold for four exhale for four hold for for not a natural breath. Nobody reads like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's amazing for emotional regulation. So let's, let's do this together. Ready, and let's inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale through the nose. They barely
Hold 321 exhaling out
Gwenevere Abriel: Your head in your mouth right there and hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 exhale feel every bit of that air coming outs nice flat bellies.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do it on your own count. Nice and quiet.
Gwenevere Abriel: On your own rhythm.
Gwenevere Abriel: One more time on your own count where you're managing this on your own.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah now shine. Tell me your subjective unit of distress zero to
Shaun w: 150 and fully like
Like
Gwenevere Abriel: Know 5050 okay
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel relaxed. So for you because your distress level and you're, you're still like a 50 and finding yourself, relax. There's still more to go. Now for some people, that's like, well, what
Gwenevere Abriel: But you still have some additional relaxation. That's possible, right, all the way down to zero, where they relaxed body heart is
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of doing its own thing and what we just did is called a bagel break. We just activated the parasympathetic nervous system, your body naturally knows what to do. It has to have an opposite
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, it activates in order to protect you with fight or flight, it knows to protect you. But it also has an opposite system. And that's using the Vegas nerve.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you just did, which you activated the Vegas nerve by bringing that air down and smashing those organs below with a an expanded a diaphragm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you expanded your lungs. You smashed on all those organs down low, send a message up to the brain in contradiction to an, oh my gosh, what's going to happen to me in the future you send a message from
Gwenevere Abriel: The viscera. We're. Oh, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no actual danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's actually no danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: You gave this permission to this body of yours to be relaxed to bring its guard down and you contradicted the worry thought. Now a couple other things happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of them was, this is actually a difficult thing to do this breathing technique takes a lot of concentration. So it did a couple of things. Yes, it did. The diet for matic bagel break
Gwenevere Abriel: But it also, it takes concentration. So if you were worried about what's going to happen, what's gonna happen. What if this breath. The mind only wants to do one thing at a time. And because this takes effort and concentration, your mind got distracted.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it got out of that huge neural network of the, oh my goodness worry about future
Gwenevere Abriel: And it got into the here and now.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you were able to experience at least a 30 degree reduction.
Gwenevere Abriel: This, I highly recommend you do when you wake up five or six times a day. And before you go to sleep. So that becomes so habitual for you that it's part of whatever if you do any kind of spiritual Mantra Meditation or you just like to maybe even think about grandma by getting the imagery
Gwenevere Abriel: And including this breath work as soon as I woke up right doing things that feel good to the body and feel restful to the mind. Let's do them as much as we can. I mean, that is what's going to bring relief to all of this worry, worry, worry, worry
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me tell you something, your brain will work better, faster and stronger when it's not in brain mode, it will actually function better for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, remember I was telling you about all the cortisol, your brain can't remember it can't store information, the way you want it to. When you're at such high stresses, right, it has such a high stress level.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's just a plus, plus, plus, plus, good, good, good, good, good thing to do. There's so many good reasons to do it.
Shaun w: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Absolutely. And then report back, say, hey, I forgot it or did it a couple times.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you might say, I did it once forgot it, or you might come back and say, I did it every time. And this is where I recommend it. Every time I'm about
Gwenevere Abriel: To make contact with another human being, do it before you make attack a call or you go to work or you walk out of the room.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get yourself regulated, because for you, right, the threat response is high, the threat activation happens like often
Gwenevere Abriel: And we want you to be ready in a calm body to meet whatever is coming up so that you can say this isn't, this isn't danger. This isn't dangerous. This is this is saying, oh, my cousin, this is this is Joe, I can tell my body. I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, you did great come back and tell me if you like it if you remembered it. Excellent. So you want to continue at this time.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we can do. Yeah, that we started and we should be able, I think, depending on on on that target mapping to see if we got got a hold of a pretty core memory will see but 9am on
Gwenevere Abriel: Years of February 25
Is when I
Shaun w: Okay, excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do I need to message, your doctor or is your medicine big bridge from group to group.
Shaun w: No, he has he gave it to me all of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then I will see you next group.
Shaun w: All right, take care.
Shaun w: Bye Bye bye.